Docs on how to configure gitops for github-actions and gitlab-ci (#280)
nebari-dev/nebari-docs: docs/docs/how-tos/configure-gitops.md

---
id: configure-gitops
title: Setup Nebari GitOps

> description: Setting up GitOps for Nebari

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Setting up IaC via GitHub Actions or GitLab CI
```

---

> # Setup Nebari gitops

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Setup Nebari GitOps
```

## What is GitOps / Infrastructure as Code (IaC)?

> GitOps also known as Infrastructure as Code(Iac) is the practice of using git for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitOps, also known as Infrastructure as Code (Iac), is the practice of using git for
```

managing the state of your infrastructure. This allows for easy

> auditing and discovering the current state of your system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
auditing and tracking the current state of your system.
```
I like tracking better, but you can chose to ignore :)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In other parts of these docs, we covered [installing Nebari](/get-started/installing-nebari) and the various [methods of deployment](/get-started/deploy) which including walking you through the creation of the central configuration file for Nebari, `nebari-config.yaml`. We can take our automation one step further by ensuring that any changes to this configuration will redeploy the entire Nebari platform via CI. This document will show you how to set things up. 
```
Not sure about those link paths, and I didn't spend time making the wording right, but you get the point. We need something here to say "this is the icing on the cake". 

And as a sister comment... We need to link to this document at the bottom of each `Deploy Nebari on ...` doc as a `Next Steps`.

> ## Setting up IaC on Github-Actions

Reviewer: Given that the title of the document is centered aroud `gitops`, I would expect we would use `gitops` in the headers. Or else change the title to be `Setup Nebari Infrastructure as Code`

> ## Setting up IaC on Github-Actions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setting up IaC on Github Actions
```

> Configuring Neabri to render the appropriate workflows for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting up Nebari to render the appropriate workflows via
```

> github-actions can be configured via the following settings in your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitHub Actions can be configured via the following settings in your
```

`nebari-config.yaml`.

```yaml
ci_cd:
  type: github-actions
  branch: main

>   commit_render: true

Reviewer: I've read the whole doc and I still don't know how this works.
* after I put this in my config, what do I need to run?
* if I include this here, then run `nebari deploy` it will generate some `/.github/workflow/deploy.yml` scripts for me?
* What do the "appropriate workflows" look like?
* Will I need to commit them to a repo?
* When I make changes to the repo, what will happen? Is it watching all files, or only certain files?
* What step am I automating here?

Reviewer 2: I just added gitops to an existing Nebari deployment that was not set up initially with that functionality. We did not use the guided set-up - we deployed Nebari using a configuration file. It may be important to note that we did include this in the configuration yaml file during initial deployment (I'm not sure if a user who did not include this would have to take additional steps before the steps I took):
```
ci_cd:
  type: github-actions
  branch: main
  commit_render: true
```
To set up gitops, I then
1. created a repo and pushed all files from deployment to it (`.github`, `stages`, `.gitignore`, `nebari-config.yaml`).
2. Created the following secrets for Github Actions to use: `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, `REPOSITORY_ACCESS_TOKEN` with the keys/tokens that I used to deploy Nebari.
3. I enabled ACLs on the S3 bucket created by my Nebari deployment (named `{project_name}-dev-terraform-state`. I used my AWS console to find the bucket, clicked on the Permissions Tab, scrolled to Object Ownership and clicked edit, then selected ACLs enabled. (see [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70333681/for-an-amazon-s3-bucket-deployment-from-github-how-do-i-fix-the-error-accesscont)).

After taking these steps, I was able to make a change to my configuration file and open a PR. This triggered the `github/workflows/nebari-linter.yaml` job. When that passed, I merged the PR, which triggered the job created by `.github/workflows/nebari-ops.yaml` and the update to our deployment was successful.

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `branch` specified indicates where the Github Action will watch for changes and trigger a redeploy when changes are seen. 
```

It is possible for your deployment that you will need to run arbitrary
steps before and after the deployment. These are exposed via the
`before_script` and `after_script` keys.

```yaml
ci_cd:
  before_script:
    - name: Before Script
      run: |
        echo "Hello World"
    - uses: actions/setup-node@v3
      with:
        node-version: '14'
  after_script:
    - name: After Script
      run: |
        echo "Bye World"
```

> 

Reviewer: What would be a couple of examples of this?

> ## Setting up Iac on Gitlab CI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Setting up GitOps on GitLab CI
```

> Configuring Neabri to render the appropriate workflows for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting up Nebari to render the appropriate workflows via
```

> github-ci can be configured via the following settings in your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitLab CI can be configured via the following settings in your
```

`nebari-config.yaml`.

```yaml
ci_cd:
  type: gitlab-ci
  branch: main
  commit_render: true
```

It is possible for your deployment that you will need to run arbitrary
commands before and after the deployment. These are exposed via the
`before_script` and `after_script` keys.

```yaml
ci_cd:
  before_script:
    - 'echo "Hello World"'
    - 'echo "Another command"'
  after_script:
    - 'echo "Bye World"'
```

> 

Reviewer: We also need a link in the quickstart pointing to this doc.
